# VirusTotal

[VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/home)

ervice that allows anyone to analyze suspicious files, domains, URLs, and IP addresses for malicious content. VirusTotal also offers additional services and tools for enterprise use.

1. **Detection**: The Detection tab provides a list of third-party security vendors and their detection verdicts on an IoC. For example, vendors can list their detection verdict as malicious, suspicious, unsafe, and more.
2. **Details**: The Details tab provides additional information extracted from a static analysis of the IoC. Information such as different hashes, file types, file sizes, headers, creation time, and first and last submission information can all be found in this tab.
3. **Relations**: The Relations tab provides related IoCs that are somehow connected to an artifact, such as contacted URLs, domains, IP addresses, and dropped files if the artifact is an executable.
4. **Behavior**: The Behavior tab contains information related to the observed activity and behaviors of an artifact after executing it in a controlled or sandboxed environment. This information includes tactics and techniques detected, network communications, registry and file systems actions, processes, and more.
5. **Community:** The Community tab is where members of the VirusTotal community, such as security professionals or researchers, can leave comments and insights about the IoC.
6. **Vendors’ ratio and community score**: The score displayed at the top of the report is the vendors’ ratio. The vendors’ ratio shows how many security vendors have flagged the IoC as malicious overall. Below this score, there is also the community score, based on the inputs of the VirusTotal community. The more detections a file has and the higher its community score is, the more likely that the file is malicious.

* The **Vendors'** **ratio** is the metric widget displayed at the top of the report. This number represents how many security vendors have flagged the file as malicious over all. A file with a high number of vendor flags is more likely to be malicious.
* The **Community** **Score** is based on the collective inputs of the VirusTotal community. The community score is located below the vendor's ratio and can be displayed by hovering your cursor over the red **X**. A file with a negative community score is more likely to be malicious.
* Under the **Detection** tab, the **Security vendors' analysis** section provides a list of detections for this file made by security vendors, like antivirus tools. Vendors who _have not_ identified the file as malicious are marked with a checkmark. Vendors who _have_ flagged the file as malicious are marked with an exclamation mark. Files that are flagged as malicious might also include the name of the malware that was detected and other additional details about the file. This section provides insights into a file's potential maliciousness.
* **Hash value:** Hashes convert information into a unique value that can't be decrypted. Hashes are often used as unique references to files involved in an intrusion. In this activity, you used a SHA256 hash as the artifact for this investigation. Find another hash that's used to identify this malware and enter it beside the **Hash values** section in the Pyramid of Pain template. You can use the **Details** tab to help you identify other hashes.
* **IP address**: Find an IP address that this malware contacted and enter it beside the **IP** **addresses** section in the Pyramid of Pain template. You can locate IP addresses in the **Relations** tab under the Contacted IP addresses section or in the **Behavior** tab under the IP Traffic section.
* **Domain name:** Find a domain name that this malware contacted and enter it beside the **Domain names** section \*\*\*\*in the Pyramid of Pain template. You can find domain name information under the Relations tab. You might encounter benign domain names. Use the **Detections** column to identify domain names that have been reported as malicious.
* **Network artifact/host artifact:** Malware can create network-related or host-related artifacts on an infected system. Find a network-related or host-related artifact that this malware created and enter it beside the **Network/host artifacts** section in the Pyramid of Pain template. You can find this information from the sandbox reports under the **Behavior** tab or from the Relations tab.
* **Tools:** Attackers can use tools to achieve their goal. Try to find out if this malware has used any tool. Then, enter it beside the **Tools** section in the Pyramid of Pain template.
* **Tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs):** TTPs describe the behavior of an attacker. Using the sandbox reports from the Behavior tab, find the list of tactics and techniques used by this malware as identified by MITRE ATT\&CK® and enter it beside the **TTPs** section in the Pyramid of Pain template.
